		
		 HOME  
		COVID-19  
		SYLLABUS  
		STAFF  

Welcome to CS1951V
Hypertext: The Web Was Not the Beginning and the Web Is Not the End    
Fall Semester 2020  Wednesdays 3pm-5:30pm
Professors: Andy van Dam, Norm Meyrowitz
CSCI1951-V, “Hypertext: The Web was Not the Beginning and the Web is Not the End” is a new seminar that will look at hypertext systems that came before and after the Web as a basis for discussing what next generation hypertext systems should look like. Students will be doing writing assignments, reading and annotating technical papers, and prototyping and/or developing software projects. The class will be part lecture and part discussion, and students will learn not only about hypertext, but will use that knowledge to learn how to write product specs, perform competitive analyses, and develop high-level software architectures as they try to design systems of the future. 
The course will be co-taught Andy van Dam and Norm Meyrowitz and assisted by Rosemary Simpson. Andy is most well-known for computer graphics, so you may not realize he co-created one of the first hypertext systems and interactive screen-based word processors in the late 1960s. Norm was an HTA for Andy’s intro course back in the Cretaceous days, so he knows the ropes. He later was Co-Director of Brown's Institute for Research in Information and Scholarship (IRIS). IRIS created Intermedia -- one of the best-known hypertext systems in the late 1980s -- which influenced the development of the Web. He went on to be President of Products at Macromedia (acquired by Adobe) where he oversaw the design and development dozens of products like Dreamweaver, Flash, Director. Rosemary is a hypertext information designer who created the Gateway hypertext system in the mid-1980s at Lisp Machines, Inc. 
Feel free to contact Andy (avd@cs.brown.edu), Norm (nkm@brown.edu, Phone/Text 415-505-9115), or Rosemary (Rosemary_Simpson@brown.edu) if you have any questions about this still-very-much-under-construction course. We may not be done with all of the course design, but we do know it will be engaging and fun! 
Handling Covid-19 

This seminar includes lectures, discussions, & projects. We hope the scheduled time works for most; we will poll during the first class to see if another time is better. We will provide a replay of the Zoom session for those whose time zone prevents them from attending synchronously, with a TA or Instructor live for questions. Assignments include building a multimedia hypertext, building one or more trails through that content, and a small group project to implement a hypertext system. Enrollment is capped at 20 students. TAs will provide 1-on-1 TA hours as well as reception/lab/conceptual hour sections via Zoom. 
Syllabus

Lectures 



Written Assignments 

There will be some short papers for the course. Before you freak out and decide not to take the course because of that, consider the following. If you go out into the real world and work for a company (startup or established) to get your ideas heard and adopted you will have to be great at writing crisp, easily-understandable, focused documents. They may be documents describing your high-level ideas, a competitive analysis of other products, requirements, a product spec, briefs for marketing and PR folks, draft press releases, etc. The short papers will help you learn these skills. If you go into academia, you will be writing project proposals, grants, abstracts for conferences, papers for journals, etc. and the ones that are better written have a higher chance of getting accepted. We promise to read and critique your papers, so you will get real feedback, not just a grade. Consider writing these short papers a feature, not a bug. 
Programming Assignments 

Programming assignments will consist of a small number (4-6) of short, individual assignments covering various topics of modern web development. For the Final Project, 3-4 students will form a group and take what they've learned from throughout the course to develop their own hypertext / hypermedia system. 
Technologies 

By completing the course you will have gained valuable experience not only as a writer but also in developing full-stack applications for the web using the MERN stack - MongoDb, Express, React, Node. We will be encouraging students to use Typescript. We settled on the MERN stack so that our small staff can provide high-quality support to students working on assignments and the final project. We recognize there are many great libraries, frameworks, and languages out there that could be used to implement a hypertext / hypermedia system. If you are interested in using another technology please reach out to us ASAP and we will be happy to consider it.   To learn more about the MERN stack check out this article. 
Participation 

In terms of participation, our intent is to have an interchange, not an inquisition. It should feel very much like going to a brainstorming meeting in a research group or a company, so this will provide good experience for interacting in those types of environments. 
Staff

Professors

Andy (avd)
I’m originally from the Netherlands. My CS specialty is Computer Graphics, especially pen- and touch-computing. I’m a foodie and love the outdoors: hiking and backpacking (especially in the Grand Canyon), mountain- and road-biking, and kayaking.

Norm (nkm)
I’m originally from Brooklyn (before it was hipster). My CS specialty is Hypertext, Multimedia, and Web Software. I too am a foodie, and if the food starts with "P" (pastrami, pizza, or porchetta), I am probably either cooking it or eating it. Graduated from Brown in 1981 with Sc.B. CS. Ran a research institute at Brown, then went to industry to build lots of products at Macromedia (now Adobe). My wife -- also a Brown alum --and I have lived in San Francisco since 1991 (way before it was hipster!).

Teaching Assistants

HTA - David Promisel (dpromise)
Hi! I'm a senior from Fairfax, Virginia, concentrating in CS. In my spare time I like to run as fast as I can in a straight line over and over. Come talk to me about sports, books, dogs, or anything else! Can't wait to meet you! 

Kristen Mashikian (kmashiki)
I’m a senior studying Computer Science from Hingham, MA (just south of Boston). At Brown, I’m also a TA for ENGN 1010 and am heavily involved in the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship. I love building products and talking all things startups, especially B2B technology and the future of work. Looking forward to meeting everyone soon!
		© Brown University Department of Computer Science
		Design: HTML5 UP
